---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "restapi_object Data Source - restapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Example data source
---

# restapi_object (Data Source)

Example data source

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "restapi_object" "John" {
  path         = "/api/objects"
  search_key   = "first"
  search_value = "John"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `path` (String) The API path in addition to the base URL defined in the provider configuration, which represents objects of this type on the API server.
- `read_search` (Attributes) Custom search for `read_path`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--read_search))

### Optional

- `id_attribute` (String) Defaults to `id_attribute` defined in the provider configuration. Allows per-datasource override of `id_attribute` (see `id_attribute` provider documentation)
- `query_string` (String) Query string to be included in the path.
- `read_method` (String) Defaults to `read_method` defined in the provider configuration. Allows per-datasource override of `read_method` (see `read_method` provider documentation)
- `read_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that specifies where objects of this type can be read (`GET`) on the API server. The string `{id}` is replaced by the terraform ID of the object.

### Read-Only

- `api_response` (Map of String) API response data. This map includes k/v pairs usable in other resources as readable objects. Currently the value is the golang fmt representation of the value. Simple primitives are set as expected, but complex types like arrays and maps contain golang formatting.
- `api_response_raw` (String) The raw body of the HTTP response from the last read of the object.
- `create_method` (String) Defaults to `create_method` defined in the provider configuration. Allows per-datasource override of `create_method` (see `create_method` provider documentation)
- `create_path` (String) Defaults to `path`. The API path that specifies where objects of this type are to be created (`POST`) on the API server. The string `{id}` is replaced by the Terraform ID of the object if the data contains the attribute `id_attribute`.
- `create_response_raw` (String) The raw body of the HTTP response from the object creation.
- `data` (String) JSON object managed by the provider that holds information from the API response.
- `destroy_data` (String) JSON object that is passed to destroy requests.
- `destroy_method` (String) Defaults to `destroy_method` defined in the provider configuration. Allows per-datasource override of `destroy_method` (see `destroy_method` provider documentation)
- `destroy_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that specifies where objects of this type can be deleted (`DELETE`) on the API server. The string `{id}` is replaced by the terraform ID of the object.
- `id` (String) Internal resource ID.
- `object_id` (String) Defaults to the autogenerated `id` gathered during normal operations and `id_attribute`. Allows to set the ID manually. This is used in conjunction with the `*_path` attributes.
- `update_data` (String) JSON object that is passed to update requests.
- `update_method` (String) Defaults to `update_method` defined in the provider configuration. Allows per-datasource override of `update_method` (see `update_method` provider documentation)
- `update_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that specifies where objects of this type can be updated (`PUT`) on the API server. The string `{id}` is replaced by the terraform ID of the object.

<a id="nestedatt--read_search"></a>
### Nested Schema for `read_search`

Required:

- `search_key` (String)
- `search_value` (String)

Optional:

- `query_string` (String)
- `result_key` (String)
