---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "restapi Provider"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# restapi Provider



## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "restapi" {
  endpoint             = "https://example.com"
  write_returns_object = true

  headers = {
    "X-Auth-Token" = var.AUTH_TOKEN,
    "Content-Type" = "application/json"
  }

  create_method  = "POST"
  update_method  = "PUT"
  destroy_method = "DELETE"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `endpoint` (String) Endpoint address of the REST API. This is used as base URL for all requests.

### Optional

- `cert_file` (String) Client certificate file used for mTLS authentication.
- `cert_string` (String) Client certificate string used for mTLS authentication.
- `copy_keys` (List of String) Keys to copy from the API response to the `data` attribute. This is useful if internal API information also needs to be provided for updates, e.g. the revision of the object.
- `create_method` (String) Defaults to `POST`. The HTTP method used to CREATE objects of this type on the API server.
- `create_returns_object` (Boolean) Enable it if the API returns the created object on creation operations only (`POST`). The returned object is used by the provider to refresh internal data structures.
- `destroy_method` (String) Defaults to `DELETE`. The HTTP method used to DELETE objects of this type on the API server.
- `headers` (Map of String) A mapping of header names and values to be set on all outgoing requests. This is useful if you want to use a script via the `external` provider or provide an approved token or change the default Content-Type from `application/json`. If username` and `password` are set and Authorization is one of the headers defined here, the basic authentication data will take precedence.
- `id_attribute` (String) If this option is set, it is used for editing REST objects. For example, if the ID is set to `name`, changes to the API object are made to `http://example.com/foo/<value_of_name>`. This value can also be a path to the ID attribute delimited by '/' if it is several levels deep in the data, e.g. `attributes/id` in the case of an object `{ "attributes": { "id": 1234 }, "config": { "name": "foo", "something": "bar"}}`.
- `insecure` (Boolean) When using HTTPS, this disables TLS verification of the host.
- `key_file` (String) Client certificate key file used for mTLS authentication. Note that this mechanism simply delegates to `tls.LoadX509KeyPair` which does not support passphrase protected private keys. The most robust security protection available for the `key_file` is restrictive file system permissions.
- `key_string` (String) Client certificate key string used for mTLS authentication. Note that this mechanism simply delegates to `tls.LoadX509KeyPair` which does not support passphrase protected private keys. The most robust security protection available for the `key_file` is restrictive file system permissions.
- `oauth_client_credentials` (Attributes) Configuration for OAuth client credential flow. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--oauth_client_credentials))
- `password` (String, Sensitive) When set, will use this password for basic authentication to the API.
- `rate_limit` (Number) Limits the number of requests per second sent to the API.
- `read_method` (String) Defaults to `GET`. The HTTP method used to READ objects of this type on the API server.
- `test_path` (String) If this option is set, the provider will send a `read_method` request to this path after instantiation and require a `200 OK` response before proceeding. This is useful if your API provides a no-op endpoint that can signal whether this provider is configured correctly. The response data is ignored.
- `timeout` (Number) When set, will cause requests taking longer than this time (in seconds) to be aborted.
- `update_method` (String) Defaults to `PUT`. The HTTP method used to UPDATE objects of this type on the API server.
- `use_cookies` (Boolean) Enable cookie jar to persist session.
- `username` (String, Sensitive) When set, will use this username for basic authentication to the API.
- `write_returns_object` (Boolean) Enable it if the API returns the created object on all write operations (`POST`, `PUT`). The returned object is used by the provider to refresh internal data structures.
- `xssi_prefix` (String) Trim the XSSI prefix from response string, if present, before parsing.

<a id="nestedatt--oauth_client_credentials"></a>
### Nested Schema for `oauth_client_credentials`

Required:

- `client_id` (String, Sensitive) Client ID.
- `client_secret` (String, Sensitive) Client secret.
- `token_endpoint` (String) Token endpoint.

Optional:

- `endpoint_params` (Map of List of String) Additional key/values to pass to the OAuth client library as `EndpointParams`
- `scopes` (List of String) Scopes
