---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "restapi_object Resource - restapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Restapi object resource schema.
---

# restapi_object (Resource)

Restapi object resource schema.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "restapi_object" "Foo2" {
  provider = restapi.restapi_headers
  path     = "/api/objects"
  data     = "{ \"id\": \"55555\", \"first\": \"Foo\", \"last\": \"Bar\" }"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `data` (String) JSON object managed by the provider that holds information from the API response.
- `path` (String) The API path in addition to the base URL defined in the provider configuration, which represents objects of this type on the API server.

### Optional

- `create_method` (String) Defaults to `create_method` defined in the provider configuration. Allows override of `create_method` (see `create_method` provider documentation) per data source.
- `create_path` (String) Defaults to `path`. The API path that specifies where objects of this type are to be created (`POST`) on the API server. The string `{id}` is replaced by the Terraform ID of the object if the data contains the attribute `id_attribute`.
- `destroy_data` (String) JSON object that is passed to destroy requests.
- `destroy_method` (String) Defaults to `destroy_method` defined in the provider configuration. Allows override of `destroy_method` (see `destroy_method` provider documentation) per data source.
- `destroy_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that specifies where objects of this type can be deleted (`DELETE`) on the API server. The string `{id}` is replaced by the Terraform ID of the object.
- `id_attribute` (String) Defaults to `id_attribute` defined in the provider configuration. Allows override of `id_attribute` (see `id_attribute` provider documentation) per data source.
- `object_id` (String) Defaults to the auto-generated `id` gathered during normal operations and `id_attribute`. Allows to set the ID manually. This is used in conjunction with the `*_path` attributes.
- `query_string` (String) Query string to be included in the path.
- `read_method` (String) Defaults to `read_method` defined in the provider configuration. Allows override of `read_method` (see `read_method` provider documentation) per data source.
- `read_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that specifies where objects of this type can be read (`GET`) on the API server. The string `{id}` is replaced by the Terraform ID of the object.
- `read_search` (Attributes) Custom search for `read_path`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--read_search))
- `update_data` (String) JSON object that is passed to update requests.
- `update_method` (String) Defaults to `update_method` defined in the provider configuration. Allows override of `update_method` (see `update_method` provider documentation) per data source.
- `update_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that specifies where objects of this type can be updated (`PUT`) on the API server. The string `{id}` is replaced by the Terraform ID of the object.

### Read-Only

- `api_response` (Map of String) API response data. This map includes k/v pairs usable in other resources as readable objects. Currently the value is the `golang fmt` representation of the value. Simple primitives are set as expected, but complex types like arrays and maps contain `golang` formatting.
- `api_response_raw` (String) The raw body of the HTTP response from the last read of the object.
- `create_response_raw` (String) The raw body of the HTTP response from the object creation.
- `id` (String) Internal resource ID.

<a id="nestedatt--read_search"></a>
### Nested Schema for `read_search`

Optional:

- `query_string` (String) Defaults to `query_string`. Optional query string used for API read requests.
- `result_key` (String) Key to identify the data array with result objects in the API response. The format is `path/to/key`. If this key is omitted, it is assumed that the response data is already an array and should be used directly.
- `search_key` (String) Key to identify a specific data record in the data array. This should be a unique identifier e.g. `name`. Similar to `results_key`, the value can have the format `path/to/key` to search for a nested object.
- `search_value` (String) Value to compare with the value of `search_key` to determine whether the correct object has been found. Example: If `search_key=name` and `search_value=foo`, the record in the data array with the matching attribute `name=foo` is used.
